Dockerfile and docker-compose.yml serve different purposes in the Docker ecosystem:

Dockerfile

Purpose: A Dockerfile is a script that contains a series of instructions on how to build a Docker image. It defines what goes into the image, such as the base image to use, what dependencies to install, and how to configure the environment.

Usage:
Image Creation: Dockerfile is used to create a Docker image. It specifies the exact environment your application needs to run.
Single Service: Typically focuses on defining and building a single service or application.
Commands: Common commands in a Dockerfile include FROM, RUN, COPY, EXPOSE, CMD, etc.


Example:
FROM node:18-alpine
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN npm install
EXPOSE 3000
CMD ["npm", "start"]


docker-compose.yml

Purpose: docker-compose.yml is a configuration file used by Docker Compose to define and run multi-container Docker applications. It allows you to define and manage multiple services that make up your application, networking between them, volumes, and other configurations.

Usage:
Multi-Service Management: Used to manage and orchestrate multiple Docker containers that need to work together, such as a web server, database, and cache.
Simplified Setup: Provides an easier way to set up complex applications by defining everything in a single YAML file.
Services and Volumes: You can define services, volumes, networks, and dependencies between services.
Commands: Common commands include docker-compose up, docker-compose down, docker-compose build, etc.

Example:

version: '3.8'
services:
  web:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    volumes:
      - .:/app
  db:
    image: postgres:13
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: example
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: example
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

volumes:
  db-data:


Key Differences:

Scope:
Dockerfile: Focuses on defining the environment and dependencies for a single service or application.
Docker Compose: Focuses on defining, managing, and orchestrating multi-container applications.


Usage Context:

Dockerfile: Used when building an image for a single service.
Docker Compose: Used when you need to run, configure, and connect multiple services together.


Complexity:

Dockerfile: Typically simpler and more focused on creating a specific image.
Docker Compose: More complex and powerful, allowing you to manage multiple services, networks, and volumes.

In practice, they are often used together: you write a Dockerfile to create an image, and then use docker-compose.yml to define and run a multi-container environment.